Hey everybody, what is up?
So we know already about epic and epic spec sheets,
and we know about user stories.
So how does all this stuff get prioritized? As a product manager,
like we've already talked about, prioritizing things
is a major part of your role.
But here's the thing - you don't just prioritize user
stories, like a lot of people would have you believe,
you're in charge of prioritizing things all the way
from user stories up to bigger things like epics,
all the way to even you can help marketing prioritize,
you know, marketing and branding campaigns based
on product launches,
there's a whole bunch of stuff you've got to consider,
and it's more than just the value of that particular
thing that helps you prioritize it, because sometimes
you are working in companies with other teams and
different technologies, and other times
the competitors will do something,
all of these things have a big effect on how you prioritize.
That being said, I want to talk about three quick methods,
they're very basic academic methods that a lot of people know
about in the product management world, to prioritize
either user stories or epics, or just initiatives that you're doing.
So the first thing I want to mention is there is something
called assumption testing, prioritizing by the assumptions.
The goal here is to pretty much de-risk what
you're doing by saying "Okay, this epic, or this story,
this user story, we're assuming a few things here.
We've tried to remove the risky assumptions through user studies, and tests, and data, and that sort of thing,
but you can't remove them all."
So what are the remaining assumptions for any given
epic or story, and how big is the assumption that
you're making, or if you're making a few assumptions,
let's see what the biggest assumption is. What you
do here is you just take that biggest, riskiest assumption
and you assign it a value from like, 1 to 5 or
1 to 10, and you say that, you know, 10 is really,
really assuming something, and it's quite risky.
Then you take a score called an importance score and
you also score it on the importance of doing that
thing, or the impact you think it's going to make. You just add these two values together, and then you sort based on that.
So you do that for everything and you just sort based on that.
This works particularly well on smaller
stories inside of a bigger epic you're doing, because
what you're doing basically is saying "All right, if
we're completely wrong about this one thing, we want to try it first.
We can't get any more data, we can't
figure out how wrong we are until we do it,
so we're going to try it first to know if we're right or wrong,
and it might give us some more information on the
next things we're thinking about doing."
The second method is called the BUC method.
This is the business benefits, the user benefits, and then the cost.
Basically, you want to come up with a value from 1 to 5
or 1 to 10 for each of these, score them
appropriately, add up these scores, and then
you basically take the benefits part,
the business benefits and user benefits,
subtract the cost score from the sum of those, and
you get a final score, and then you prioritize all
of your stuff based on those final scores,
with the highest being up at the top.
There is a problem with this though, and that is that
it's pretty challenging to accurately score things
based on these sometimes.
Sometimes there's just not enough data available
to make an accurate number out of it.
All right, so there's one last method I want to talk about,
and this one is quite common, called the Moscow method.
It's the M-O-S-C-O-W. You might've seen it spelled like that.
This stands for Must, Could, Should, and Would. Basically,
you take everything you've got, everything you intend to do,
all these stories or epics, and you just say, "Okay, we're
going to imagine we're not going to do any of these,
what is the worst thing that happens?
Like, what's going to happen if we do none of this?"
So, from there, you find out things that, "Okay, we absolutely
cannot live without building this for a number
of reasons," and you can call those things the musts.
Then you go over all the other ones and you just say,
"Is this something that we should have, or is it
a must, or is it something we could do, or something
that we would do if we got the opportunity?"
This is really not science.
It's just going through things, and then thinking very
deeply about each one, and saying "Is this something
we absolutely must have, or things are going to get really
bad, either with the business in terms of revenue,
or survival, and that kind of thing."
Last thing to mention about that Moscow method is
that if you have something that is a must have, you
can obviously not have that depend on you doing
something else that you haven't done yet.
So if there's one feature that depends on another
feature being there, and that first feature is a must,
well, then it makes sense that the other feature
also must be a must have.
All right, so that's it for those three methods. We've got BUC, we've got assumption testing, and we've got the Moscow method.
Those are useful, but they're not going to be applicable to
everything you're prioritizing as a product manager, because, like I said, there's all sorts of crazy things
happening out there in the market,
there's companies that go bankrupt, and companies
that get acquired, and then you've got, you know, other
teams that are working on things that you didn't know about,
or maybe there's a new technology available
all of a sudden that allows you to do something.
All of these things affect priorities everywhere in
the business, not just on small user stories or epics,
but on the direction, and the vision, and the direction
that the entire product team and the entire product
team all over the company heads towards.
Keep these methods in mind,
but just remember, they're not the only thing
you can use to prioritize things.
You can also think for yourself and go by
your instinct with the data you've got.
I'll make one last note, by the way, and say that some
of the biggest successes out there in terms of
products were not decided on some sort of fancy, logical,
quantitative decision, but they come from companies
that engender a risk taking attitude or have structures
in place to let the employees take some risk.
If you work at a company that is not going to go
bankrupt if you screw up a little bit, work with your
manager, and your bosses, and the CEO, and the executives,
and just think about ways that you could be a
little bit more creative with your team, or even with
some of the other teams, to come up with ideas for
products that have never been created before, go a step further.
It's okay to do that, but the main goal is not to bankrupt your company by screwing up on a really important feature.
All right everybody, see you in the next lecture.